has really empowered FEMA they've gone
to a level one here at the NRCC
and continue to support the emergency
continue to support all elements is
really working with the interagency and
our state and local partners the
governor's be here a few minutes know
the FEMA process know how that works
in cases of natural man-made emergencies
and that's the process that we'll be
using
going forward making sure that they are
linked up with their Emergency
Operations centers and I didn't Safina
so again thank you for being here we
look forward to your remarks well thank
you very much and it's great having FEMA
involved we've had tremendous success
working together and we appreciate all
of the people here and it's an honor to
be with all of you you're doing a
fantastic job by the way and so now
we're as of yesterday when we when we
gave the order FEMA's totally involved
in addition to everybody else and a lot
of progress is being made so I look
forward to speaking to the governor's
and from what I understand we have
pretty close to 50 of the governor's and
some territories own and we have a lot
of just about everybody showed up so
that's very nice and we will put them on
the screen as soon as you want thank you
thank you very much Mike you want to say
something
Thank You mr. president Thank You mr.
president and I want to I want to add
our thanks not only did the great team
here at the National Response
Coordination Center and FEMA as FEMA
takes the lead in implementing the
policies that you approve for the White
House coronavirus task force but as you
as you do continually mr. president I
want to thank all the governor's that
are joining us today today is an
opportunity to talk about the progress
that we are making on on mitigation on
testing on supplies we understand as as
FEMA's as FEMA's mission that this
effort through FEMA will be locally
executed state management
federally supported and I want all the
governor's to know that we are with you
every step of the way we are absolutely
determined at the president's direction
to make sure that you have the resources
and the support as you see to the health
and well-being of your communities we
commend the governor's at this point mr.
president as we told the country today
three states are 50% of the coronavirus
cases in America today so we're focusing
resources at the point of the need the
governor's in those states their state
health officials are responding with
great professionalism and great speed
we'll continue to support those that are
directly impacted but by standing up
through a year national emergency
declaration mr. president standing up
FEMA and standing up the National
Response Coordination Center we we want
our governors we want all of our state
and local health officials to know that
we are as you say bringing the full full
weight of the federal government to bear
to support our states and our local
communities and that will get through
this coronavirus and we'll get through
this together I agree with that 100%
thank you very much and for the media
I guess perhaps you're gonna stand aside
you're gonna have the screen right
behind you and we'll start opening this
up to the governors that's okay please
yeah got the one question for you
okay
[Music]
thank you very good thank you very much
and we will consider everything you've
said thank you very much okay who's next
[Music]
and so Phil try try what you can do the
best you can to get what you can
actually get and we're also having a lot
of things produced that frankly nobody's
ever seen anything like this before but
do the best you can
[Music]
what is your second request John Bell
what's your second request please the
second request okay we're gonna look at
that and I'm going to try and get you
immediate approval on the hospital I
know about the hospital request and so
we're going to speak to the VA whether
we get immediate at least as a switch
but we'll get that approved for you one
way or the other
all right okay thanks a lot John I might
ask very briefly while we're waiting for
the next governor to come on Mike if you
could say a few words and also Debra if
you could say a few words would be great
and then we have another governor teed
up please great again thank you thank
all the governors for your leadership
their partnership in confronting the
coronavirus a few updates and a few
requests for each one of you I want you
all to make your citizens aware the
President signed the family first
coronavirus response act last night
coronavirus testing is free paid sick
leave family leave for caregiver givers
food assistance to the needy get the
word out to your citizens to be very
helpful on
State as we've said many times have
worked with many of you through your
state labs and in certified labs and of
course if the CDC testing is now
available in all 50 states we want you
to be aware that if you have questions
about the availability of testing in
your state you obviously can talk to
your state health department and
healthcare providers but I want every
governor to know that because of the
public-private partnership that the
president forged with our commercial
labs Roche thermo Fisher and as of last
night Abbott Laboratories are now coming
online literally by the hour and when
they are done we will have some 2000
labs stood up around the country with
the high throughput testing your health
care providers will know where those
resources are your State Department will
know where their resources are and we
just encourage you to bring your team
together important to note that that
well now tens of thousands of more tests
are being performed literally every day
the bill the president signed last night
also included a provision that states
and private labs must report all
coronavirus testing results to the CDC
emphasize that dear State Health
Department your health care providers
encourage you maybe to pull them
together today before end of business
we're rapidly expanding testing around
the country but but as dr. Burks will
reflect in a moment we want to make sure
that we're getting the results of that
testing so that we can be informed about
that and of course that the American
people can have full visibility on that
testing as well she'll also explain we
will see as testing is ramping up today
and tomorrow we will see an increased
number of cases we want to give context
to you and to your citizens about that
on supplies President Trump has have
been engaging industry leaders in the
supply chain across the country and to
make sure that personal protective
equipment
and medical supplies are broadly
available on the subject of masks I've
talked to many of the governor's about
n95 masks again in the bill the
president signed last night we have
literally unlocked tens of millions of
n95 masks what the president asked the
Congress to do and they did was we
extended liability protection to all
industrial n95 masks so those can now be
readily sold to your hospitals and
health care providers we urge you to
communicate that to your health care
providers your hospitals today to let
them know that that supply has
dramatically increased and they can
place orders
we also would reiterate if you can reach
out to your construction companies
they're in possession of lots of n95
industrial masks and the president is
urging all those builders and literally
hundreds around the country have already
done this to donate those masks to their
local hospitals and clinics on the
subject of ventilators we are currently
surveying health care providers around
the country and suppliers and I'm
pleased to report to you that we have
already identified tens of thousands of
ventilators including ventilators that
can be converted to treat coronavirus
patients your action item on that and
your in your state should be you should
survey your outpatient surgical centers
and and your ORS to identify the type of
respirators that can be converted that
dr. Burks has been working with with
suppliers there's a changed vent that
has to be attached we've identified that
those are available but literally tens
of thousands of ventilators are now
going to be available because of because
of the survey that's currently underway
the other point that we wanted to
emphasize is at the direction of CDC and
the president's coronavirus task force
we are encouraging hospice
and every American to postpone elective
surgery please explain to your citizens
that this will have a direct impact on
hospital capacity by suspending elective
surgeries it will free up more space in
hospitals including respirators as dr.
Burks explained to me that many people
that require a respirator is because of
a surgery gone wrong and so this frees
up more of our capacity across the board
I know it's not lost on any of the
governor's here mr. president
that by standing up FEMA we you now have
essentially created a structure that
every governor is very familiar with in
dealing with disasters and emergencies
we have activated all emergency support
functions and interagency functions here
Pete Gaynor is here for comments and
questions
we intend to run all of the federal
response and support to States through
here at the National Response
Coordination Center and through FEMA we
this Center is fully operational
governor's I I want you to tell your
teams that this this NRCC will be
connected to your states through your
regional administrators and your State
Emergency Operations centers this will
be very familiar to all of you any
questions that you have the only thing
that I would ask on the president's
behalf if there are issues that arise in
your state begin with your regional FEMA
administrator literally 20,000 people
work for FEMA there you all know what
incredible people they are and they're
ready to go to work to work your issues
so with that mr. president I might just
turn it over to dr. Burks with your
permission and she'll reflect on what we
know about the data and what we know
about the spread of the disease but
thank you for your bold leadership
thanks for what you all are doing to
implement the president's coronavirus
guidelines it's an honor to be serving
with all of you thank you Mike's
president Deborah
mr. vice president you should received
an analysis of the across the country Co
good cases analyzed by state and
counties utilizing counties with more
than 50 cases so it's the three primary
states of California Washington
California Washington and New York with
the addition counties of New Orleans and
Cook County we are very concerned to
remain concerned in urban areas where
mitigation and social distancing is
absolutely crucial the issue of
decreasing spread due to contaminated
counters and other things in restaurants
and bars as well as movie theaters is
absolutely critical so I know you're
concerned about your hospitals but
critically you need to make sure that
all elective medical and surgical
procedures and dental procedures have
been cancelled that that PPE is being
utilized and transferred to the parts of
your state that needed the most you look
at all elective surgery centers those
are your outpatient surgical centers and
that staff to be your search capacity
those ventilators can be converted to be
utilized the anesthesia ventilators to
be used as ventilators I think as we all
work together to solve these solutions I
think unlocking the mast and the PPE
from construction was absolutely key as
well as as well as this ventilator
situation I think the federal government
has been very proactive and ensuring
that we've decreased bureaucracy and
barriers to unlock these innovations we
believe that innovations will continue
to come from the field and we appreciate
your frontline workers who have been
informing us about their changes it's
important that we're tracking the data
on a county-by-county as granularly as
we can because we can look at whether
Mitigation is working in those we'll get
feedback from your community this will
only be solved if every single person
in every single community takes
responsibility to ensure that following
the presidential guidelines that were
put out several days ago for the two
weeks of stopping this virus so we will
stay in close communication with all of
you through FEMA we're very excited
about the full activation of Thebans
we'll be able to provide a dialogue both
up and a violent dialogue down so that
we can stay and close their
communication and so we can ensure that
we have prioritized all stockpile
elements based on the needs and the case
structure that has been reported
reporting becomes critical if we can't
see it we don't know how to unlock the
stockpiles so this both test negative
and test positives are going to be
absolutely essential as well as hospital
admissions and CCU beds so that we
understand exactly what is required from
the federal government Thank You mr.
president
thank you very much my go ahead Thank
You mr. president just two brief points
on the subject of testing Admiral Gua is
with us the US Public Health Service has
built a model so many of the states have
already begun drive-through testing are
doing a yeoman's work in that space and
amber was here to articulate to you how
we can be supportive of that going
forward and where we're rolling that out
last point the president asked me to
emphasize we want to encourage every
governor on this call to convene your
leading health care providers today to
to take inventory of your medical supply
needs and we urge you to remind them
that they need to look to their supply
chains first we'll prioritize
accordingly and any states that are in
the middle of critical response know
that we will work with you to get you
what you need other states you need to
talk to your health care leaders
providers and make sure that they are
going to the supply chain and we
encourage you to to pull them together
today to to emphasize that point thank
you mr. president thank you very much
Mike and I want to get back to the
governor's
do want to say to me something so big
the FDA has approved a compassionate use
for a significant number of patients we
have a drug called chloroquine a
derivation would be hydroxychloroquine
which i hear even better about it's a
common malaria drug it's been available
so therefore the safety level we
understand very well it's been
relatively safe and it showed very
encouraging early results really
encouraging if we if this works as well
as hopefully it might the FDA which
would have taken normally much longer to
do under our great Secretary has been
Fanta the head of the FDA has been dr.
hon dr. Stephen Hahn he's been fantastic
he got it approved very quickly I won't
even tell you how quickly but let's put
it this way it's approved and we're
encouraging you to take a look at it we
have ordered a lot of it and you can too
it's by prescription it's a very
powerful drug for malaria and also for
various forms of very serious arthritis
but we think it has a very serious very
good impact on what we're talking about
with respect to the virus so you'll take
a look at that and you can coordinate
with us but I think to me that's a game
changer you know about the vaccines are
fine but that will be a while before you
can test them because you have to leave
quite a bit of period we are making
tremendous progress sort of vaccine but
it still takes a long while to test it
we're also studying this and other
promising therapies which is a therapy
produced by Gilead and that would be
REMS
it's called REM Nessebar REM Nessebar
and it shows great promise and red jr.
Ron was a company which is also working
very hard on a drug and it's also
they're doing very well they are the
ones that came up with a very successful
solution to Ebola and they've been a
fantastic company so we have some great
things but the the ones that I mentioned
are very good but especially I think if
you look at the first mention could be a
absolute total game changer and with
that I think we'll go back to the this
is my prescription
but states can issue it and we have it
approved by the FDA and I think it's
going to be something that will be very
interesting to see we're going to know
very quickly but we've had some very
good tests and it's been successful so
let's take a look to me that's probably
the most important thing that anybody
can say if it works but we have it
approved for safety and I want to thank
the FDA for acting so quickly it was
incredible how quickly this was
something that would have taken years
and they got it done
almost immediately based on the past
history of the drug thank you very much
who is the next governor please
I'd be thank you around I got three
quick things to bring your attention
what is reagents to process the test so
once
for example somebody's been squad and we
have a test kit sending it to our lab
working to conserve the reagents but I
think some of my colleagues are actually
out so if you can put some attention in
the CDC to make sure we're okay
that would be our first responders I've
got attorneys and so our schools our
teachers can't do anything because we're
gonna get sued because of the
requirements so that's good we'll get
right back to you on that beat thank you
very much great job you do thank you
okay who's next governor who's our next
governor
next
[Music]
all right thank you very much well we do
like you going out seeing what you can
get if you can get it faster and price
is always a component of that also and
maybe that's why you lost to the feds
I'll tell you that's probably why but
I'm gonna I'm gonna ask Mike to discuss
that because we have some I think brand
new information please like well charlie
we will take that back and appreciate
the feedback Secretary of HHS is here
and we we want to facilitate all the
states and the health care providers in
your states to be able to access
that supply chain as it becomes more
robust specifically on the defense
production act the the president the
president has has activated the defense
production act but he's not initiated
any other action underneath it right now
what I can tell you is as the president
has brought together leaders of business
and industry and supply chains I think
mr. president you put it well when you
talk about the spirit in American
business about wanting to ramp up
voluntarily to meet the needs that our
health care providers have in this
country is truly inspiring and so the
president has not yet exercise his
authority under the defense production
act he said he will if he needs to but I
think I think the president's perception
the team's perception is now is American
industry is stepping forward very
aggressively and with the changes that
Congress just enacted and the President
signed we're going to continue to make
to make more and more PPE available and
I will say this too early and for
everybody the country has really stepped
up like I don't think we've seen it in
many many probably decades it's
incredible the way they've stepped up so
we hope okay thank you Charlie impact
that we're all facing and thank you so
much for joining vice president Pat's
the former governor to lead this crisis
he's been terrific and working with all
of us and reaching out to us thank you
yesterday yesterday we different people
with different questions we try to
consolidate it down
kind of a group of concerns that that
only governor's agreed on were sort of
our priorities and we talked with Doug
Holzer last night and gave to the White
House some of which you've already
covered already in the discussion but I
just want to walk walk through them
there's summarizes there are 25 30
different things all the governor's
we're talking about but these were the
ones that were the most there was most
consensus on one one it was you know
trying to dedicate at least 50% of the
supplemental funding to the states
including some direct funding and acting
quickly on waiver requests you've done a
great job with all of this all this
funding we're in a good position at the
state level to know the real needs and
get the money out faster for those
industries that are being hurt and
getting those checks out for the people
that need them but we have the money in
the States we can really utilize and I
think faster and push it out sort of
like we do on other things with block
grants secondly we've talked about this
a lot but every governor obviously is
trying to work with you and it's
bombarding about things about how do we
work together to increase access to PBS
a math test gets extraction kits and
accelerating the production and all of
this life-saving equipment ventilators
and we're working together but that's
obviously something all 50 governors are
at the top of their list third and this
came mostly from your appointees mr.
president the co-chairs of the Council
of Governors governor Hutchison and
governor EJ about the supporting title
32 authorization to give the governor's
more flexibility with their National
Guard's and it helps us pay those folks
and get them benefits that we've
elevated we've activated 2200 Guard
members in our state and this is nothing
I think the governor cited consult a
know your point these are on this call I
believe and providing some got number
four providing some guidance on
implementation of the Defense
so we can kind of help work with
secretary azar and give some thoughts
about how the states would be more
involved in helping that with some of
the industries in our state
and lastly allowing us some more
flexibility for the completion of both
the Census and the Real ID because we're
trying to not force people into like our
MBAs we've waived licensing requirements
so we don't have people trying to get
renewals of licensing and yet Real ID
requires us to get all these people in
there by October 1st because it's kind
of five things that all the governor's
one of which you've talked about and I
just want to again thank you there's
been tremendous cooperation you have a
terrific team thank you that's been
working and I want to try to limit the
people bothering secretary saw reiterate
when I talk with the White House about
last night and that is you mentioned it
mr. vice president going through the
normal FEMA process so it's great that
you're being so willing to help
governor's personally but I think things
will happen veterans you go through feed
your regional FEMA coordinators and you
got more people addressing these issues
but well thank you Larry you know I
think I think the FEMA is gonna go great
we've had so much we've done so much
work with FEMA unfortunately recently on
a on a big tornado in Tennessee you know
that and then last year on a big tornado
in Alabama and plenty of hurricanes and
we work also in California largely a
California that big forest fires in FEMA
there's a job like no like no other and
so I think there'll be a tremendous I
know there going to be a tremendous sell
on the two points that are relevant I'd
like you to call Steve minuchin I'll
speak to him later
give him a little detail in those two
points please so that while we're doing
this with the center we're getting a lot
of cooperation from Democrats and
Republicans maybe you can make those two
points a little bit with Steve because
few people do agree with that okay thank
you thank you very much Larry thank you
okay next next
mr. president if I might before the next
governor speaks I might with your
permission
Pete Gaynor could give us a couple
minutes I think Governor Hogan
we appreciate your affirmation of the
president's decision to stand up FEMA's
National Coordination Response Center
and and to have all the state requests
and resources funneled through a very
customary system here at FEMA but mr.
president with your permission yes
National Response Coordination Center
and as the secretary the vice president
yourself seriously FEMA is the leading
federal operations or is leading federal
operators on behalf of the White House
corner task force what we see is the
whole of them a response to the pandemic
like all of you we are prepared to do
this for the long duration for the long
haul the health and safety of our
employees and the American people is my
top priority as this as of this morning
the HHS crisis action task force and
other federal partners have fully
integrated into the operation space here
at FEMA's National Response Coordination
Center additionally all 10 FEMA regional
response coordination centers around the
country have been activated to support
ongoing response efforts in each of your
respective states and regions
currently there are 50 states of the
District of Columbia five territories of
one tribe that have opted in and have
received the 501 B emergency declaration
of October 19 in support of this FEMA's
primary goal because ensure you have the
resources that you need this is what
FEMA needs from everyone the FEMA
regional ministries will continue to
coordinate closely with you and your
teams determine the type and level
support you need as you continue to
respond to this dynamic threat like all
Mercy's responses most successful one is
locally executed state managed and
fairly supported and we cannot stress
this enough at the state level has
informed that your emergency management
and public health teams are linked
together
governor's if you have unmet needs
please ensure they are committed to your
respective FEMA regional administrator
they have a direct line here to the NRCC
in Washington DC
I also need your help in emphasising
that at the local and county level they
should first be funneling requests up
through the state and then from the
state to the FEMA regional
administrators again locally executed
state managed and fairly supported
recently today we issued guidance to all
states about what eligible emergency
protective measures are under the
Stafford Act so that was this afternoon
and governor's you should see that
shortly we will also be some guidance on
giving more definition about the defense
production Act I thank everyone for the
continued partnership in this effort and
as the president vice-president said we
will get through this together as a team
thank you very much Pete and in addition
to FEMA we have the very very talented
men who have dealt with a lot on
building different things throughout the
country the general that you I think for
the most part you know general sermon
it-- and that's the Army Corps of
Engineers and very much involved in a
couple of locations I noticed very
specifically and he's definitely very
busy but he's a good builder and that's
what you need is a good builder so thank
you very much general for being here
okay next governor please
[Music]
yes you are together the next round of
stimulus I ask you please to consider
direct direct and sign to our hospitals
they're really bearing the brunt of this
the second thing is and I talked to
secretary minuchin yesterday I asked you
to think about market for kind of bridge
financing to deal with short-term
liquidity
let's do that would be helpful and I
think some of us may need that help in a
matter of weeks not months so I just
wanted to put that on your radar and
then I fully fully supports what has
been asked for as it relates to block
grants because we all of us are on the
ground and need some flexibility to
quickly react to the needs of our small
businesses who you know you guys are
really struggling and we're gonna have
to do our best to help them thank you
thank you
Thank You Gina very much appreciate it
very much and we'll look into all of
those points very strongly thank you
Gary to the states is helpful as we look
at best practices one of the things I'd
like to just suggest is we hear a lot of
what we can't do there's a lot of gloom
out there people are uncertain they're
afraid and we need to bring some if we
can to win this is how long we got red
water here the stock market is in kind
of a freefall and yeah as we around the
country may be meeting in small groups
you still be able to keep people safe
from the spread of this rather than
total shutdown so I
[Music]
but I think you're right 100% and I
think we're going to have a we're gonna
be a rocket ship as soon as this thing
gets solved as soon as we beat the
invisible enemy it's an invisible enemy
and it's been vicious it's in over 140
countries if you can believe that 140
countries so it moves fast it's very
contagious but we've really stepped up
and a lot of good things are going to
happen and one of the reasons we're
doing the package is that you're hearing
about reading about and know about is
the fact that we think it's going to
come back really fast I think we're
we're poised to come back very very fast
but we have to get rid of this and we
will get rid of the virus and hopefully
it'll be sooner far sooner rather than
later thank you very much thank you made
them I wanted
[Music]
well thank you very much you're right a
hundred percent we're watching the auto
industry very much we're going to be
helping them out at least a little bit
and they've sort of requested some help
and it wasn't their fault what happened
so we'll be taking care of the auto
industry and I appreciate it very much
your comments thank you Thank You mr.
vice president for returning calls to us
as we answers to questions about testing
and actually that's why through testing
that's being stood up across the country
that will be provided in Illinois for
these drive-through tests testing
shutters and
and so I wanted to try to understand
them up what will happen that perhaps
you know a day or two days okay these
states have done a lot of that
themselves working in conjunction with
us a lot of the drive-thru has been done
by States but Admiral maybe you could
answer that question please a couple of
numbers for you right now we're very
effectively transitioning to large-scale
testing by leveraging all components of
our American healthcare system including
CDC in the state public health labs
healthcare and hospitals and large
commercial labs let me give you a few
numbers between March 2nd and March 14th
we made available 10 point 4 million
tests the United States population we
anticipate by March 28th that number
will be twenty seven point six million
tests according to the FDA so an
incredible surge in terms of supplies
which many of you I worked with probably
about twenty individually
the FDA has made available a number of
options for supplies different swabs
different reagents if you don't have
culture medium you can use sterile
saline saltwater it works good everybody
has that that's on the FDA faq website
and in general the commercial market is
working extraordinarily well the CDC and
the public health laboratories to date
have conducted over 45,000 tests and the
clinical laboratories the large clinical
laboratories have now conducted over
3000 tests of which 20,000 were done
just yesterday so this shows the
incredible ramp we do not have all the
tens of thousands of hospitals which
ambassador birx is talking about I
wanted to highlight one before I get to
your question that the approval by
Abbott the approval by the FDA of the
out of the testing system is very
important to your hospital systems
because it spans a little bit of a gap
between what's done at your state lab
and what's done in the large commercial
laboratories there are about 175 of
these systems throughout the country
150,000 tests were released yesterday
next week these are in 175 of your
community tests per day within your
hospital system now in terms of the
drive through this is the last part we
are standing up 47 sites in 12 states
according to the state needs we asked
for the FEMA regional administrators for
what you needed how we can support you
some states need very little support
some states the significantly more so
far
only one week after we started we will
have several starting today and likely
more than a dozen starting tomorrow and
to be very clear we gave the initial
allocation based on workers they told us
but we want you to work through your
FEMA system we have plenty of tests on
the backside we have plenty of supplies
on the front side work through your FEMA
administrator to give your requirements
and we will bring those back through the
thema system to meet them there's been
great demand and great enthusiasm among
the states for these drive through
centers primarily for healthcare workers
and we want to support you we can
certainly provide more than 5,000 but we
didn't want to give away so much at the
beginning and so everyone got set up
thank you sir
Thank You general
the supplies that you're talking about
because the challenge out here is that
while you are providing test sets we
don't have as you pointed out the
reagent the swabs we're having to go out
on the market to find it but it's being
monopolized by this drive-thru program
that the federal government is doing and
and we have drive through the hospitals
are stood up on their own swabs
then we can't do more tests that we're
doing today the five have been provided
suits are being provided to Illinois for
those drive-thrus are not enough going
forward and we really need you know
again reagents and swabs in order for us
to expand our hospitals general that
shouldn't be a problem would you please
mention that because everything should
be in very good shape it is absolutely
not true that the drive-thru centers are
monopolizing the market we use the swabs
that the swab kits not the testing kits
we get them through the commercial
market we use a very small percentage of
them when I was asked about shortages
yesterday I went right to the commercial
market got two hundred thousand and
shipped them to the states that said
they couldn't find them so please look
on the commercial market because they
are there we will help you find them or
we will help you help you to access them
and again
if you stand your requirements up and
with a FEMA system we will work with
your states to acquire them or assist
you in any way we're fully integrated
into FEMA now it's been great in only
twelve hours we've got us all side side
by side so we want to help you we
appreciate the enthusiasm
more than 5,000 available to you either
the commercial market or we will assist
in fact last night we bought 250,000
swabs and they got distributed all over
to all over the country to the various
states and the states that needed them
the most so
JB any problem call me up but there
should be no problem with that at all
thanks a lot Chevy thanks Jimmy next
governor please
this is Kristi Noem from South Dakota
Thank You mr. president mr. vice
president
for all your good work we sure
appreciate it I want to tell you a
little bit of my story and I need to
understand how your triaging supplies we
for two weeks for requesting reagents
for our public health lab from CDC who
pushed us to private suppliers who kept
canceling orders on us and we kept
making requests placing orders the
morning we would expect the supply all
of a sudden we get a cancellation notice
and we're unable to because I have the
only well found out that one of my
received reagents when they haven't even
been an FDA approved lab and our
concepts and yes so they've received
what I was trying to get for two weeks
when they're not even running and I'm
trying to figure out three ojung
supplies that we need especially when
I'm the only lab that operates on the
stage and we were going through the
channels there correctly and using and
searching and asking I'm probably the
one that my other colleagues alright we
heard we got cheap very good
that will never happen to you and it
will never happen to your state governor
will this is secretary this is Nick
Cray's are we absolutely want to make
sure you get what you need there there
are many different reagents that can be
used
so after this call will get on with you
to help make sure you're getting what
you ate at hospital I know how they got
their supplies they probably bought them
on the open market
there's a train dollars of open market
supply this where most entities are
buying them for Possible's buy their
supplies from and States can buy from
but I think purview first please let
your let that need you know your FEMA
regional director so that it goes into
your normal process there but given this
special issue here that is a CDC test
we're going to get on user team right
away after this all and we'll get that
issue solved there is tremendous supply
Deb please go and I told them to
prioritize states that had not received
so your hospital I'm not sure what you
mean they're not certified
there was Fisher platform they are
certified to run this assay
da so there will be a lot of commercial
hospitals in your state that I will have
access to these commercial laboratories
outside of the CCC trust I understand
about your state local labs and using
your public health labs using the CDC
hace but we're trying to strengthen your
individual hospitals capacity wearing
normal assays our Thank You Christie
thank you very much next governor please
Thank You Chrissy next governor please
go ahead go ahead I think we got cut out
[Music]
thank you Mike we'll take care of that
immediately very quickly all right
next please
yes hi
[Music]
yes canceled
I think that's good I think it's a good
idea Pete will do it through FEMA so
Peters here will do it okay thank you
very much we'll get it done
thank you very much all right we have
four more governors thanks let's go
who's next
hi Oregon is grateful for these calls
the ability to connect with your
administration and our needs are
reflected in the governor Hogan thank
you very much okay together with leaders
of the BIA numbers you've heard it from
George very much thank you okay industry
unfortunately had to shut down the strip
in Las Vegas and as a result of that and
while they're getting some compensation
and filing for unemployment anything to
help we could get from your in to help
getting our economy back going right
would go a long long way this is our
number one industry in demand yeah I
know but got other parts of the country
with the theme parks and whatnot these
folks are lower wage sometimes it would
definitely be helpful if we could
include them in any recovery package
that is brought forward I think it's a
great idea thank you very much I think I
think it's something we'll be thinking
about it Thank You governor next please
we talked about the ventilator crisis as
we get further down the road
I know governor Inslee is there at that
point now whether and I've heard rumors
that the car industry might start
manufacturing him and then we've talked
about using laser technology laser
training to make the parts if FDA would
give us the standards and if Congress
and the administrator and the admission
would help us a patent protection so
that we could get into the supply chain
an adequate supply of ventilators and
the filters to where that was one thing
we had to worry about in our supply
chain going forward that would be very
helpful okay and we can do that too
that's great we can do that easily thank
you thank you bread well ladies and
gentlemen thank you very much it's been
an honor to be with you we'll do this
probably often until this get solved
feel free to call me the vice president
anybody at the table anybody in the room
except for the media don't call the
media and we will see you at the next
one thank you all very much thank you
thank you everybody
you